welcome back to the Lowe's woodworkers
shop class where we're finishing up our
exciting book castle project now don't
worry if you missed either of the
previous three sections you can go to
lowes.com/videos and get all caught up
this time we'll be building and
attaching the castle top to our book
castle and then we're gonna finish
everything off with some great final
touches
now our castle is made of several
sections we've got the tower sections
we've got the front wall and drawbridge
the side walls and the back wall the
first step is to build these towers each
tower is made of four pieces a long
Tower side a short Tower side and two
tower ends we'll cut all four of those
pieces to width on the table saw and to
length on the miter saw the tower ends
have a window and a notch in the top so
using the grid trick we used earlier
we'll go ahead and transfer the pattern
to the wood and cut it out with our
jigsaw and for the window go ahead and
drill a hole first and start your jigsaw
cut there right now I'm going to go
ahead and drill one pocket hole in each
tower this will be the thing that
enables me to attach the castle to our
bookcase once I do that it's time to put
the towers together I'll take all four
pieces for each tower and attach them
together with glue and Brad's four
towers four corners by putting our
towers in each of the corners and then
measuring the distance between them we
get the measurements for our other walls
the side walls need to be cut to width
on the table saw and then to linked on
the miter saw are the front and back
walls just need to be cut to length now
once again we have a pattern to cut out
the side walls each have a window so go
ahead and transfer the pattern using a
grid and drill a hole and start your
jigsaw cut there the front wall in the
drawbridge can be cut with the jigsaw as
well now we need some more pocket holes
to attach the front back and side walls
to the tower assemblies we also need
pocket holes in the front and back walls
to help us attach the castle to the
bookcase later once you have the pocket
holes drilled go ahead and attach all of
the castle parts together using glue and
pocket hole screws so we need a way to
keep our drawbridge closed later and for
that we're going to attach a magnetic
catch plate so we're gonna put the catch
plate on this small piece go ahead and
cut it
now and attach it with glue and Brad's
so we've got our castle
you got a bookcase it's time to finish
it off now at this point you want to go
ahead and fill most of your Brad holes
nail holes and pocket holes with a
sandable wood filler and I say most
because you don't want to fill the
pocket holes you're gonna use to attach
the castle section to the bookcase that
way later as your kids grow and change
you can remove the castle section now
once you've filled all the pocket holes
it's time to sand long smooth strokes
with the grain of the wood and always
move from a coarser grit sandpaper to a
finer and finer one feeling with your
hand as you go for any rough spots it's
time for me to paint my castle is a
phrase I never thought I would say but
guess what it's time for me to paint my
castle so I'm gonna go ahead and do it
now you start you got to wipe everything
down with a tack cloth make sure it's
nice and clean and then apply your
primer and once that primers dry it's
time to get creative have some fun with
this it's supposed to be fun now I'm
gonna take my time I'm gonna draw in
these lines right here because I like
this faux stone look and to me that
looks like a castle I might even put a
vine going up the sights if someone can
crawl up and rescue Rapunzel then go
ahead and attach your castle to the top
of the bookcase now don't use any glue
here only the pocket hole screws that
way later you can remove the castle
portion as your kids tastes change
you'll see a pattern for some really
cool little shields included in your
plans these are easily customizable and
they look really great on your book
castle so you can paint them any way you
like and then add them after the rest of
the book castle is painted then attach
the drawbridge with two hinges and a
magnetic catch plate go ahead and follow
the manufacturer's instructions for the
installation of those now finally I
highly recommend with this bookcase and
any piece of top-heavy furniture that
you use a safety mechanism like this
nylon strap that attaches to a wall stud
and the furniture that allows the piece
of furniture to move but never
completely tip over on someone remember
safety first and there we go a fantastic
looking book castle that any kid would
love to have in their room and best part
of all it can change as they do
just remove the castle portion repaint
it you still got a great-looking
bookcase oh and don't forget to go to
the community section at Lowe's creative
ideas calm and upload pictures of your
book castle and take a look at pictures
of other people's projects you can find
some inspiration there I hope your kids
have as much
fun playing with their book castle as I
had building it with you I'll see you
next time